# info-process

Copyright (c) 2025 [Antmicro](https://www.antmicro.com)

info-process is a tool processing [LCOV](https://github.com/linux-test-project/lcov)'s `.info` format.
Such files can be used in, e.g., [Coverview](https://github.com/antmicro/coverview) which is a tool for generating coverage dashboards.
The overview of the `.info` format is available in LCOV's `geninfo` manual page (`man geninfo`) in the `FILES` section and [online](https://manpages.debian.org/bookworm/lcov/geninfo.1.en.html#FILES).
Tool is aimed at working with coverage reports generated by running hardware simulations, for example in [Verilator](https://github.com/verilator/verilator).

## Installation

The tool can be installed using `pip`:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/antmicro/info-process.git
```

The minimum supported Python version is 3.9

## Transforming `.info` files

Various transformations can be made to the provided `.info` files.
By default files are modified in place.
Multiple transformations can be made to the input file by specifying multiple options, described further.

### Adding missing BRDA entries

`BRDA` entries can be added for lines that only contain `DA` entries using the `--add-missing-brda-entries` option.

For example:
```bash
info-process transform --add-missing-brda-entries coverage-toggles.info
```

will modify the `coverage-toggles.info` file in-place like so:
```diff
 DA:30,1
 DA:31,0
 BRDA:30,0,toggle,1
+BRDA:31,0,toggle,0
```

### Duplicating BRDA entries

`BRDA` entries can be duplicated using the `--add-two-way-toggles` option.
Old entries will be replaced by two entries with `_0->1` and `_1->0` suffixes added to their names.

For example:
```bash
info-process transform --add-two-way-toggles coverage-toggles.info
```

will modify the `coverage-toggles.info` file in-place like so:
```diff
-BRDA:30,0,toggle[0],1
+BRDA:30,0,toggle[0]_0->1,1
+BRDA:30,0,toggle[0]_1->0,1
-BRDA:31,0,toggle[1],6
+BRDA:31,0,toggle[1]_0->1,6
+BRDA:31,0,toggle[1]_1->0,6
```

Note that this option will not check if the file already contains duplicated entries.

### Modifying SF entries

Source file paths in `SF` entries (`SF:<PATH>`) can be stripped based on a regular expression provided with the `--strip-file-prefix <REGEX>` option.
Additionally, records for specific source files can be filtered out based on their paths matching a regular expression provided with the `--filter <REGEX>` option.
For non-matching paths you can use `--filter-out <REGEX>`.
Please note that filtering is performed on stripped paths when these two options are used together.

For example, to strip `/root/designs/` prefixes from `SF` entries in a `coverage-toggles.info` file and only keep records for files from the `/root/designs/unit-tests` directory, one can run:

```bash
info-process transform --filter 'unit-tests' --strip-file-prefix '.*/designs/' coverage-toggles.info
```

### Normalizing toggle hit counts

Hit counts greater than 1 in `BRDA` and `DA` entries can be replaced with 1 with the `--normalize-hit-counts` option.

For example:
```bash
info-process transform --normalize-hit-counts coverage-toggles.info
```

will modify the `coverage-toggles.info` file in-place like so:

```diff
 BRDA:30,0,toggle_0,1
-BRDA:30,0,toggle_1,27
+BRDA:30,0,toggle_1,1
 DA:48,0
-DA:49,159
+DA:49,1
```

### Setting block IDs

Block IDs in `BRDA` entries (numbers that are between line number and name) for the same line can be replaced with consecutive numbers.

For example:

```bash
info-process transform --set-block-ids coverage-toggles.info
```

will override the block IDs like so:
```diff
 BRDA:30,0,toggle[0],0
-BRDA:30,0,toggle[1],12
+BRDA:30,1,toggle[1],12
 BRDA:31,0,toggle[2],1
-BRDA:31,0,toggle[3],35
-BRDA:31,0,toggle[4],0
+BRDA:31,1,toggle[3],35
+BRDA:31,2,toggle[4],0
```

Assigned block IDs can be incremented after encountering a configurable amount of matching `BRDA` entries, by additionally using the `--set-block-ids-step <NUMBER>` flag.
For example using `--set-block-ids-step 2` will increment the assigned block ID on every other matching `BRDA` entry like so:
```diff
 BRDA:30,0,toggle[0]_0->1,1
 BRDA:30,0,toggle[0]_1->0,1
-BRDA:30,0,toggle[1]_0->1,1
-BRDA:30,0,toggle[1]_1->0,1
-BRDA:30,0,toggle[2]_0->1,1
-BRDA:30,0,toggle[2]_1->0,1
+BRDA:30,1,toggle[1]_0->1,1
+BRDA:30,1,toggle[1]_1->0,1
+BRDA:30,2,toggle[2]_0->1,1
+BRDA:30,2,toggle[2]_1->0,1
```

## Merging `.info` files

Multiple `.info` files can be merged using the `merge` subcommand, e.g.

```bash
info-process merge --output coverage-merged.info coverage-test1.info coverage-test2.info coverage-test3.info
```

which will merge `coverage-test1.info`, `coverage-test2.info`, `coverage-test3.info` files and save the result to `coverage-merged.info`.

The output file will contain information merged for matching files based on `SF` paths with:
* recalculated `BRF`, `BRH`, `LF` and `LH` entries,
* `DA` entries with total hits for the given line from the input files,
* `BRDA` entries with total hits for the given line and name from the input files and the highest block ID found for the given name in the input files.

`BRDA` entries for the given line will be sorted lexicographically with proper number handling, i.e., id[0], ..., id[9], id[10]...
This might cause block IDs to be out of order in the output file if they were sorted differently in the input files.

To apply this new order to the block IDs of the merged file, one can use `--set-block-ids` option of the `transform` subcommand:
```bash
info-process transform --set-block-ids coverage-merged.info
```

### Test-list file

An additional file with names of tests which provided hits for each line can be optionally created with a `--test-list` option during merging, e.g.:
```bash
info-process merge --test-list test-list.desc --output coverage-merged.info coverage-test1.info coverage-test2.info coverage-test3.info
```

The output file is structured similarly to the `.info` files with the following entries for every source file:
* `SN:<SOURCE_FILE_PATH>`
* `TEST:<LINE>,<TEST_PATH_1>[;<TEST_PATH_2>...]` for each line if there were any hits
* `end_of_record`

#### Test names customization

Test names are constructed from paths of input files with common path prefixes and `.info` suffixes removed by default, e.g., `test1` and `test2` will be used for input files `/ci/test1.info` and `/ci/test2.info`.
Additional strings which should be removed from test names can be provided with a `--test-list-strip <STRING1>[,<STRING2>...]` option.

For example, `coverage-` and `-all.info` can be removed from paths before using them as test names with:
```bash
info-process merge --test-list test-list.desc --test-list-strip coverage-,-all.info --output coverage-merged.info /ci/tests/coverage-*-all.info
```

A common path prefix (`/ci/tests/` in this case) is removed by default and shouldn't be included in the `--test-list-strip` option.
This behavior can be disabled with a `--test-list-full-path` option.

## Creating Coverview archives

Archives viewable in [Coverview](https://github.com/antmicro/coverview) can be created using the `pack` subcommand, e.g.

```bash
info-process pack --output data.zip --config config.json --coverage-files *.info --description-files *.desc --extra-files logo.svg
```

which will create a zip archive containing files provided in the `--config`, `--coverage-files`, `--description-files` and `--extra-files`.
The created archive can be directly used in Coverview.
If path provided in `--output` has `.zip` extension then a zip archive containing all needed files will be created.
If this extension is not present then the results will be placed in a directory.

## Comparing coverage between two `.info` or two `.zip` files

Comparison table can be created using
```bash
info-process compare base_file.[zip|info] changed_file.[zip|info]
```

which will output coverage, lines count, hit count and relative change between them for files for which any of them changed.
To output summary that includes unchanged files, one might use the `--output-all` flag.
Default output format is CSV, but can be changed to human-readable table using `--table` switch.
It is also possible to add red and green colour for highlighting the relative changes between coverages using `--colour`.

Please note that both files must have the same extension.

## Generating diff Coverview archive

Diff archive can be created using
```bash
info-process archive-diff base_file.zip changed_file.zip --output output.zip
```

Resulting archive will be render uncovered for regressions, covered for improved coverage and no formatting for lines that was not affected.
With current implementation, only archives with unchanged sources can be diffed, trying to create archive from inputs with different sources will lead to `AssertionError`.

### Generating the "datasets" property

Coverview requires a `config.json` file with `datasets` property, which stores information how the coverage data should be displayed.
This property can be automatically generated by `info-process pack` from files provided in `--coverage-files` and `--description-files` switches, if it is not present in the configuration provided in `--config`.
Automatic `datasets` generation is only possible if all provided coverage file names match a `coverage_{TYPE}_{DATASET}.info` pattern and all description file names match a `tests_{TYPE}_{DATASET}.desc` pattern.
Where `TYPE` is the type of the coverage (e.g. `branch`, `line`) and `DATASET` is the name of the dataset, which is used for grouping coverage files together (e.g. grouping coverage files generated from different simulators).

### Generation source information

`info-process pack` will automatically generate the `sources.txt` file, used by Coverview to display file sources, based on `SF` entries in the provided `.info` files.
By default source files are assumed to be available in the current working directory, which can be changed using the `--sources-root <SOURCES_ROOT>` option which makes `info-process` look for source files in the provided directory.
